The evening before he died,
Jesus Christ asked his Father in prayer
to watch over his disciples.
His request is recorded at John 17:15-17.
Read it with me.
Jesus said: “I do not request
“that you take them out of the world,
“but that you watch over them
“because of the wicked one.
“They are no part of the world,
just as I am no part of the world.”
Jesus’ confidence in Jehovah
and in the power of the truth
can be seen clearly
in what he asks of his Father in verse 17:
“Sanctify them by means of the truth;
your word is truth.”
When we accept the truth
and make a personal dedication to God,
in a general sense,
we are sanctified,
or set apart, from the world
because we no longer fit into its mold.
People view us differently
because our values have changed.
We live by the standards of Bible truth,
and doing so honors Jehovah God,
gives our life meaning,
and brings us great happiness.
With those thoughts in mind,
how should we feel about the sayings of God
and the Bible truths that we have learned?
We feel the way the psalmist did.
At Psalm 119:140,
he said to Jehovah God:
“Your saying is thoroughly refined
“[which means that it’s clean and pure;
and then he said],
and your servant loves it.”
Isn’t that how we feel about the truth?
We love it!
It would be wonderful if everyone
would respond to the truth of God’s Word
and love it.
However, the sad fact is
that the majority of the world rejects it.
There are many people
who do not believe that truth is attainable.
Some ancient philosophers
made the teaching of doubts
virtually their life’s work.
Human philosophy
is built on pride of intellect
and a warped pleasure of endless speculation
that leaves Jehovah God, the Creator,
completely out of the picture.
By removing God,
philosophers wander
in a maze of ideas and theories
that fascinate the mind and inflate the ego
but never arrive at the truth.
If truth were not attainable,
why would Jesus Christ say
as recorded at John 8:31, 32:
“If you remain in my word,
“you are really my disciples,
“and you will know the truth,
and the truth will set you free”?
Are we not experiencing
the freedom that Jesus spoke of?
And why would the apostle Paul write
at 1 Timothy 2:4
that God’s “will is that all sorts of people
should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth”?
Why does the word “truth” occur
over a hundred times
in the Christian Greek Scriptures?
Jesus not only pointed out
that the truth is attainable,
but he showed that finding it is required
if our worship is to be approved by God.
When a Samaritan woman wondered
what the true form of worship was
—the worship practiced
by the Jews in Jerusalem
or that practiced
by the Samaritans on Mount Gerizim—
Jesus did not answer by saying:
‘Truth is unattainable,
and you don’t need to worry about it,’
or ‘You can believe
whatever you want to believe.’
No, Jesus did not view the truth as relative
—that whatever you want to believe
is the truth.
That is nonsense
and has nothing to do
with the realities of life.
At John 4:23, 24,
Jesus made a specific reference to truth,
God’s spirit, and pure worship.
At John 4:23, 24, he said:
“True worshippers
“will worship the Father
with spirit and truth,
“for indeed, the Father is looking
for ones like these
“to worship him.
“God is a Spirit, and those worshipping him
must worship with spirit and truth.”
Jesus was talking about
being guided in our worship
by God’s holy spirit
and said that we do not need
the use of temples, images,
or other physical objects in true worship.
And the truth that Jesus referred to
is an accurate knowledge of Bible truths.
True faith is much more
than just belief in God
—that he exists;
it also means an acceptance of God’s Word,
obtaining an intellectual understanding
of that Word,
and then manifesting
a heartfelt reliance upon it.
As genuine Christians,
we view the Bible
as the inspired Word of God,
beneficial for teaching
and disciplining mankind.
Psalm 119:160 says of Jehovah God:
“The very essence of your word is truth.”
When Jesus Christ stood before Pontius Pilate
and told him that he had come to earth
to speak the truth,
Pilate responded with the words:
“What is truth?”
Likely, Pilate was cynical.
His words reveal a skeptical view of truth.
But the truth that Jesus had in mind
was about God’s Kingdom
and Jesus’ role as its King.
That was the very theme, the core,
of Jesus’ teaching while he was on earth.
That’s why when Pilate asked Jesus
if he was a king,
Jesus replied:
“You yourself say it.”
In other words, ‘Yes, I am,’
but he added that his Kingdom
was “no part of this world.”
The truth is that his Kingdom
will sanctify Jehovah’s name,
vindicate his sovereignty,
and restore faithful mankind
to happy, eternal life.
Genuine Christians embrace this truth.
Since Jesus’ role in the fulfillment
of all of God’s promises is so pivotal
and since all of God’s prophecies
become “Amen,” or true, because of him,
Jesus could well say,
as recorded at John 14:6:
“I am the way and the truth and the life.”
And as 2 Corinthians 1:20 declares:
“For no matter how many
the promises of God are,
“they have become ‘yes’ by means of him.
“Therefore, also through him
is the ‘Amen’ said to God.”
Jesus used the word “amen”
to affirm the truthfulness of what was said,
but he did so in a unique way.
We usually say “amen” after a prayer is said
to show our agreement with it.
However, rather than use it
to reply to a prayer or a statement,
he used “amen”
to introduce pronouncements of truth.
At times, he repeated the word,
saying “amen, amen”
and then made his statement,
which would be like saying
“most truly I say to you.”
Yes, by using this expression,
he assured his listeners
that his words were the absolute truth.
Jesus could speak with such certainty
because he was the one authorized
to make all of God’s promises come true.
To us, the exhilarating
good news of God’s Kingdom
under the rulership of Jesus Christ
is more, far more, than mere information.
That truth moves us to action;
it compels us to live by it
and share it with others.
To the first-century Christian congregation,
the way of life they adopted
as followers of Christ
was sometimes known simply as “the truth”
or “the way of the truth.”
Read with me 3 John verse 4, where it says:
“No greater joy do I have than this:
“that I should hear that my children
go on walking in the truth.”
Isn’t that how parents feel
about their children
who are serving Jehovah faithfully?
Absolutely!
However, not all young ones
raised in a believing household
have stuck with the truth.
The same is true about many
with whom we’ve studied the Bible.
Is their situation hopeless?
No, not at all.
There’s still time for them to act
and to show Jehovah that they love him
and that they love the truth.
The end of this system is fast approaching.
It is going to happen and soon.
We encourage such ones
to give serious thought
to their relationship with Jehovah God,
because he genuinely loves them
and wants them to have life.
We pray that such ones
take whatever steps are necessary
to return to Jehovah before it’s too late.
It’s a Scriptural fact
that people need to love the truth
in order to be saved.
This is the point that the apostle Paul makes
at 2 Thessalonians 2:10,
where it reads in part
that people will perish
“because they did not accept
the love of the truth
in order that they might be saved.”
Our prayer is
that honesthearted people everywhere
will respond to Jehovah’s invitation
to draw close to him and love the truth.
This world is heading for an abrupt end
at the battle of Armageddon.
To survive that battle,
we must have knowledge of Jehovah God
and live in harmony with his Word,
which includes the teachings of Jesus Christ.
Earth wide we are proclaiming the good news
that God’s Kingdom
has been established in the heavens.
That proclamation
is the foretold “witness to all the nations”
that soon the accomplished end
of this world’s system will come.
No, no, not the end of our planet,
because another basic truth
is that “the earth remains forever”
as stated at Ecclesiastes 1:4.
These are absolute truths that we preach,
and we love them.
Knowing the truth sets us free from lies,
delusions, and superstitions.
And when we live by it,
the truth strengthens us to endure hardships.
God’s truth is so reliable and well-founded,
and it so inspires us with hope
that it enables us
to stand up under any test.
We see our brothers in lands
where they are mistreated and persecuted
doing just that,
and they do it with joy.
To dismiss truth as relative or nonexistent
is to miss out on the most thrilling
and fulfilling quest that life offers.
To find the truth is to find hope;
to know and love it is to know and love
the Creator of the universe
and his only-begotten Son;
to live by it is to live with purpose
and peace of mind,
now and forever.